.. define non-breaking space by |_|
.. |_| unicode:: 0xA0
   :trim:

Type 3254
=========

This Type has two main purposes: estimating the performances from the
environmental conditions and the compressor frequency,
and to deter­mine the supply air state.
The capacity output can be controlled through the frequency input.
Moreover, the Type 3254 is able to operate in heating and cooling mode,
and to simulate defrost cycles.
For more details, have a look at the in-depth features section.


.. _inputs 3254:

Inputs
------

**1. Inlet (return) air temperature** : real
   The dry-bulb temperature of the air entering the indoor unit
   of the heat pump. This air is typically at room air conditions.

**2. Inlet (return) air humidity ratio** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The absolute humidity ratio of the air entering the indoor unit
   of the heat pump. This air is typically at room air conditions.

   This input is not considered if :ref:`parameter 1 <params 3254>`
   is set to |_| 2.

**3. Inlet (return) air relative humidity** : real :math:`\in [0, 100]`
   The percent relative humidity of the air entering the indoor unit
   of the heat pump. This air is typically at room air conditions.

   This input is not considered if :ref:`parameter 1 <params 3254>`
   is set to |_| 4.

**4. Inlet (return) air pressure** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The absolute pressure of the air entering the indoor unit of the heat pump.
   This air is typically at room air conditions.

**5. Inlet (return) air mass flow rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The air flow rate entering the indoor unit of the heat pump.

**6. Outdoor air dry bulb temperature** : real :math:`\in [0, 100]`
   The dry-bulb temperature of the air
   entering the outdoor unit of the heat pump.

**7. Outdoor air humidity ratio** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The absolute humidity ratio of the air
   entering the outdoor unit of the heat pump.

**8. Outdoor air relative humidity** : real :math:`\in [0, 100]`
   The percent relative humidity of the air
   entering the outdoor unit of the heat pump.

**9. Outdoor air pressure** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The absolute pressure of the air
   entering the outdoor unit of the heat pump.

**10. Normalized compressor frequency** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The frequency of the compressor, normalized by its rated value
   (:ref:`parameters 7 and 8 <params 3254>`).

**11. Indoor unit fan speed ratio** : real
   The indoor unit fan speed, normalized by its rated value. It is also
   the value of the normalized air flow rate.
   If negative, the return air mass flow rate input will be used instead.

**12. Operating mode** : integer :math:`\in \{0, 1\}`
   Setting for heating/cooling mode:

   .. table::
      :align: left

      ====  ============
      $0$   cooling mode
      $1$   heating mode
      ====  ============

**13. Defrost mode** : integer :math:`\in \{0, 1, 2\}`
   Setting for defrost mode:

   .. table::
      :align: left

      ====  ========================
      $0$   Set to defrost mode
      $1$   Set to recovery mode
      $2$   Set to steady-state mode
      ====  ========================

**14. Recovery penalty** : real :math:`\in [0, 1]`
   Correction factor for the heating capacity when the heat pump
   operates in recovery mode. See :ref:`recovery penalty <recovery penalty>`.


.. _params 3254:

Parameters
----------

**1. Humidity inputs mode** : integer :math:`\in \{2, 4\}`
   This parameter indicates which input to this model
   will be used for the moist air calculations:

   .. table::
      :align: left

      ====  ===================================
      $2$   Percent relative humidity (input 3)
      $4$   Humidity ratio (input 2)
      ====  ===================================

**2. Rated total cooling power** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The input power of the heat pump at its rated conditions in cooling mode.

**3. Rated cooling capacity** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The cooling capacity of the heat pump at its rated conditions.

**4. Rated total heating power** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The input power of the heat pump at its rated conditions in heating mode.

**5. Rated heating capacity** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The heating capacity of the heat pump at its rated conditions.

**6. Rated inlet air flow rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rated value of the air volumetric flow rate
   entering the indoor unit of the heat pump.

**7. Rated cooling frequency** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rated frequency of the heat pump compressor
   when operating in cooling mode.

**8. Rated heating frequency** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rated frequency of the heat pump compressor
   when operating in heating mode.

**9. Indoor fan rated power** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rated power of the indoor unit fan.

**10. Outdoor fan rated power** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rated power of the outdoor unit fan.

**11. Backup heater capacity** : real
   The capacity of the backup heater that is used when the heat pump cannot work
   due to extreme conditions. If the value is negative,
   the same value as the heating rated capacity will be used.

**12. Logical Unit - cooling mode** : integer :math:`\geq 10`
   The logical unit which will be assigned to the
   :ref:`data file <cooling performance file>`
   which contains the heat pump cooling performance data.

**13. Logical Unit - heating mode** : integer :math:`\geq 10`
   The logical unit which will be assigned to the
   :ref:`data file <heating performance file>`
   which contains the heat pump heating performance data.


Outputs
-------

**1. Outlet (supply) air temperature** : real
   The dry-bulb temperature of the air exiting the indoor unit of the heat pump.

**2. Outlet (supply) air humidity ratio** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The absolute humidity ratio of the air
   exiting the indoor unit of the heat pump.

**3. Outlet (supply) air relative humidity** : real :math:`\in [0, 100]`
   The percent relative humidity of the air
   exiting the indoor unit of the heat pump.

**4. Outlet (supply) air pressure** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The absolute air pressure of the air
   exiting the indoor unit of the heat pump.

**5. Outlet (supply) air mass flow rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The flow rate of dry air exiting the indoor unit of the heat pump.

**6. Total cooling rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which heat (both sensible and latent)
   is removed from the conditioned air stream in cooling mode.

**7. Sensible cooling rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which sensible heat is removed
   from the conditioned air stream in cooling mode.

**8. Latent cooling rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which latent heat is removed
   from the conditioned air stream in cooling mode.

**9. Heat rejection rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which heat is rejected to the outdoor air
   from the outdoor unit in cooling mode.

**10. Total heating capacity** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which heat is added to
   the indoor unit air stream in heating mode.

**11. Heat absorption rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which heat is absorbed from the outdoor air
   by the outdoor unit in heating mode.

**12. Total power consumption** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The total power input (compressor, indoor fan and outdoor fan)
   required to operate the heat pump.

**13. Coefficient of performance (COP)** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The ratio between the capacity
   (heating or cooling depending on the operating mode)
   and the total input power.

**14. Energy efficiency rating (EER)** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   Same as the COP, but with the capacity expressed in BTU/h and the input power
   expressed in watts.

**15. Indoor fan power** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which the indoor unit fan is consuming energy.

**16. Outdoor fan power** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which the outdoor unit fan is consuming energy.

**17. Compressor power** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The rate at which the heat pump compressor is consuming energy.

**18. Compressor frequency** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The actual frequency of the heat pump compressor. It might be different
   from the one asked by the compressor if the heat pump shuts down
   (see output |_| 22). It has the same units as the rated compressor frequency.

**19. Condensate temperature** : real
   The temperature of the condensate exiting the indoor unit in cooling mode.

**20. Condensate mass flow rate** : real :math:`\geq 0`
   The mass flow rate of the condensate exiting the indoor unit in cooling mode.

**21. Defrost mode** : integer :math:`\in \{0, 1, 2\}`
   The defrost mode of the heat pump.

   .. table::
      :align: left

      ====  =================
      $0$   Defrost mode
      $1$   Recovery mode
      $2$   Steady-state mode
      ====  =================

**22. Forced shutdown signal** : integer :math:`\in \{0, 1\}`
   Returns :math:`0` if the heat pump works noramlly,
   and |_| :math:`1` if it is shutdown because of
   an invalid set of input conditions.


.. _performance file:

Performance file
----------------

The Type 3254 relies on performance maps to evaluate the heat pump performance.
Therefore, performance maps must be provided in the form of
*performance files*—one for each operating mode.
Those performance files must follow a specific format, detailed below.
Adequately formatting the performance file can be cumbersome, and sometimes
performance data is insufficient to cover all of the performance map quantities,
as is genenrally the case with manufacturer data.
Fortunately, there is a `preprocessing tool <https://costa.readthedocs.io>`_
available to remedy both of those problems.

Performance maps are represented as multidimensional arrays,
each dimension corresponding to a certain input quantity
and having a certain number of entries.
The performance maps input quantities must include

- the room dry-bulb temperature,
- the outdoor dry-bulb temperature,
- the normalized indoor volumetric air flow rate,
- the normalized compressor frequency.

Cooling performance maps must also include the room wet-bulb temperature,
to determine the sensible and latent capacity fractions.
This means that heating performance maps have four dimensions,
while cooling performance maps have five.
Regarding the outputs, heating performance maps must provide values for the
total input power and the total heating capacity.
Cooling performance maps must also provide the total input power,
along with the sensible and latent capacities.

Below are two examples of performance files,
one for cooling and one for heating mode.
Because there are many dimensions involved, performance files are ususally quite
long, so only the first few lines are shown.
The performance file begins by providing the dimensions of the performance map,
along with the operating range associated with each input quantity.
Then, it specifies the entries along each dimension,
and finally the output values for every combination of the specified entries.
Note that the input quantities must always be specified in the same order
(room dry-bulb temperature first, then room wet-bulb temperature in cooling
mode, then outdoor temperature, etc.).
The firsts columns contain the entries combinations of each input quantity,
with the rightmost quantity (the frequency) varying first.
This ensures that the outut values are provided in the right order.

.. _cooling performance file:

.. code-block::
   :linenos:
   :caption: Example of cooling performance file.

   !# This is a data file for Type 3254. Do not change the format.
   !# In PARTICULAR, LINES STARTING WITH !# MUST BE LEFT IN THE FILE AT THEIR LOCATION.
   !# Comments within "normal lines" (not starting with !#) are optional but the data must be there.
   !#
   !# Independent variables
   !#
   !# Number of Tdbr data points, lower bound, upper bound
      6 17.8 32.2
   !# Number of Twbr data points, lower bound, upper bound
      6 12.2 22.8
   !# Number of Tdbo data points, lower bound, upper bound
      12 -10.0 46.0
   !# Number of AFR data points, lower bound, upper bound
      2 1e-05 1.0
   !# Number of freq data points, lower bound, upper bound
      14 0 1.4
   !# Tdbr values
      17.8 21.1 23.9 26.7 29.4 32.2
   !# Twbr values
      12.2 15.6 17.2 19.4 21.7 22.8
   !# Tdbo values
      -10.0 -5.0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 19.4 25.0 30.6 35.0 40.0 46.0
   !# AFR values
      1e-05 1.0
   !# freq values
      0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4
   !#
   !# Performance map
   !#
   !#	Tdbr	Twbr	Tdbo	AFR	freq	power	      sensible_capacity	latent_capacity
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.1	0.0032678034	0.0078270881	0.0095924383
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.2	0.015247431	0.0365067728	0.0447406448
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.3	0.0370154551	0.0862034025	0.1056460355
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.4	0.0683302257	0.148510872	0.1820065612
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.5	0.1080097759	0.211626558	0.2593575915
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.6	0.1541484803	0.2658985541	0.3258702935
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.7	0.2043652562	0.3075138351	0.3768716382
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.8	0.2560852354	0.3384178314	0.4147458357
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	0.9	0.3068232438	0.363399964	0.4453625305
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	1.0	0.3544303797	0.386779851	0.4740156035
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	1.1	0.3972710888	0.4105953643	0.5032025554
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	1.2	0.4343122105	0.4346359002	0.5326652823
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	1.3	0.4651227291	0.4575091829	0.5606974894
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1e-05	1.4	0.4897987153	0.4777544533	0.5855089526
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.1	0.0032678034	0.0078270881	0.0095924383
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.2	0.015247431	0.0365067728	0.0447406448
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.3	0.0370154551	0.0862034025	0.1056460355
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.4	0.0683302257	0.148510872	0.1820065612
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.5	0.1080097759	0.211626558	0.2593575915
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.6	0.1541484803	0.2658985541	0.3258702935
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.7	0.2043652562	0.3075138351	0.3768716382
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.8	0.2560852354	0.3384178314	0.4147458357
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	0.9	0.3068232438	0.363399964	0.4453625305
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	1.0	0.3544303797	0.386779851	0.4740156035
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	1.1	0.3972710888	0.4105953643	0.5032025554
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	1.2	0.4343122105	0.4346359002	0.5326652823
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	1.3	0.4651227291	0.4575091829	0.5606974894
   	17.8	12.2	-10.0	1.0	1.4	0.4897987153	0.4777544533	0.5855089526
   	17.8	12.2	-5.0	1e-05	0.1	0.0038513398	0.0077754241	0.0095291219
   	17.8	12.2	-5.0	1e-05	0.2	0.0179701865	0.036265804	0.044445327

|

.. _heating performance file:

.. code-block::
   :linenos:
   :caption: Example of heating performance file.

   !# This is a data file for Type 3254. Do not change the format.
   !# In PARTICULAR, LINES STARTING WITH !# MUST BE LEFT IN THE FILE AT THEIR LOCATION.
   !# Comments within "normal lines" (not starting with !#) are optional but the data must be there.
   !#
   !# Independent variables
   !#
   !# Number of Tdbr data points, lower bound, upper bound
      4 15.6 23.9
   !# Number of Tdbo data points, lower bound, upper bound
      10 -26.1 15.0
   !# Number of AFR data points, lower bound, upper bound
      2 1e-05 1.0
   !# Number of freq data points, lower bound, upper bound
      20 0 2
   !# Tdbr values
      15.6 18.3 21.1 23.9
   !# Tdbo values
      -26.1 -20.6 -15.0 -10.0 -5.0 0.0 5.0 8.3 10.0 15.0
   !# AFR values
      1e-05 1.0
   !# freq values
      0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2.0
   !#
   !# Performance map
   !#
   !#	Tdbr	Tdbo	AFR	freq	power	        capacity
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.1	0.003178591	0.0025479775
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.2	0.0186176684	0.0149240341
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.3	0.0520713887	0.0417407361
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.4	0.1072392615	0.0859636323
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.5	0.1861736662	0.1492379224
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.6	0.2892808725	0.2305285764
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.7	0.4153039359	0.3189541754
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.8	0.5613908536	0.4028984669
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	0.9	0.723289038	0.4733228775
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.0	0.8956723774	0.5262791482
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.1	1.0725789877	0.5634360902
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.2	1.2479148976	0.5901976742
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.3	1.4159640763	0.612731807
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.4	1.5718411744	0.6355189604
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.5	1.7118311746	0.6603478707
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.6	1.833578394	0.6867006008
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.7	1.9361121244	0.7128479986
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.8	2.0197222658	0.7369319946
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	1.9	2.0857201122	0.757631318
   	15.6	-26.1	1e-05	2.0	2.1361327416	0.7743642738
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.1	0.003178591	0.0025479775
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.2	0.0186176684	0.0149240341
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.3	0.0520713887	0.0417407361
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.4	0.1072392615	0.0859636323
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.5	0.1861736662	0.1492379224
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.6	0.2892808725	0.2305285764
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.7	0.4153039359	0.3189541754
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.8	0.5613908536	0.4028984669
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	0.9	0.723289038	0.4733228775
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	1.0	0.8956723774	0.5262791482
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	1.1	1.0725789877	0.5634360902
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	1.2	1.2479148976	0.5901976742
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	1.3	1.4159640763	0.612731807
   	15.6	-26.1	1.0	1.4	1.5718411744	0.6355189604
